Node profiling public beta (#11550)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/profiler/enabling/node.md

---

> title: Enabling the Ruby Profiler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Enabling the Node.js Profiler
```

kind: Documentation
code_lang: node
type: multi-code-lang
code_lang_weight: 40
further_reading:
    - link: 'getting_started/profiler'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Getting Started with Profiler'
    - link: 'tracing/profiler/search_profiles'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Learn more about available profile types'
    - link: 'tracing/profiler/profiler_troubleshooting'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Fix problems you encounter while using the profiler'
---

> 

Reviewer 2: Can you add https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/blame/master/content/en/tracing/profiler/enabling/ruby.md#L19-L23?

<div class="alert alert-warning">

> Datadog Node Profiler is currently in public beta. Datadog recommends evaluating the profiler in a non-sensitive environment before deploying in production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog Node.js Profiler is currently in public beta. Datadog recommends evaluating the profiler in a non-sensitive environment before deploying in production.
```

</div>

The profiler is shipped within Datadog tracing libraries. If you are already using [APM to collect traces][1] for your application, you can skip installing the library and go directly to enabling the profiler.

## Requirements

> The Datadog Profiler requires Node.js 12+.

Reviewer 2: This seems like it might be a bit much for a ~quickstart guide. Could we say something like
> The Datadog Profiler requires Node.js 12+, but Node.js 16+ is recommended. Some applications will see increased tail latency in between profiles on Node.js < 16. See <link> for more details.

cc @GaurabAryal @DataDog/documentation if you have any suggestions for better phrasing here!

## Installation

To begin profiling applications:

1. If you are already using Datadog, upgrade your agent to version [7.20.2][2]+ or [6.20.2][3]+.

> 2. Run `npm install --save dd-trace@latest`. This will add a dependency on the `dd-trace` module which includes the profiler.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Run `npm install --save dd-trace@latest`. This adds a dependency on the `dd-trace` module which includes the profiler.
```

3. You can auto-enable the profiler with environment variables:

    ```shell
    export DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=true
    export DD_ENV=prod
    export DD_SERVICE=my-web-app
    export DD_VERSION=1.0.3
    ```

    **Note**: If you’re already using Datadog APM, you should already be calling `init` and don’t need to do so again. If you are not, ensure the tracer and the profiler are loaded together:

    ```node
    node -r dd-trace/init app.js

    ```

    or

    ```node
    const tracer = require('dd-trace/init')

>     ```

Reviewer: Not sure how we communicate it for our other products, but we also have programmatic config that we might want to include here too:

```js
const tracer = require('dd-trace').init({
  profiling: true
})
```

Reviewer 2: Check out how we did this with ruby- https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/blame/master/content/en/tracing/profiler/enabling/ruby.md#L50

> 4. A minute or two after starting your Ruby application, your profiles will show up on the [Datadog APM > Profiler page][4].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. A minute or two after starting your Node.js application, your profiles will show up on the [Datadog APM > Profiler page][4].
```

---
title: Enabling the Node.js Profiler
kind: Documentation
code_lang: node
type: multi-code-lang
code_lang_weight: 40
further_reading:
    - link: 'getting_started/profiler'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Getting Started with Profiler'
    - link: 'tracing/profiler/search_profiles'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Learn more about available profile types'
    - link: 'tracing/profiler/profiler_troubleshooting'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Fix problems you encounter while using the profiler'
---

{{< site-region region="us5" >}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">
  The Continuous Profiler is not available for the Datadog {{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}} site.
</div>
{{< /site-region >}}

<div class="alert alert-warning">
Datadog Node.js Profiler is currently in public beta. Datadog recommends evaluating the profiler in a non-sensitive environment before deploying in production.
</div>

The profiler is shipped within Datadog tracing libraries. If you are already using [APM to collect traces][1] for your application, you can skip installing the library and go directly to enabling the profiler.

## Requirements

> The Datadog Profiler requires Node.js 12+, but Node.js 16+ is recommended. Some applications will see tail latency spikes every minute while starting the next profile on Node.js < 16. 

Author: we should definitely bold the Node 16 part

## Installation

To begin profiling applications:

1. If you are already using Datadog, upgrade your agent to version [7.20.2][2]+ or [6.20.2][3]+.

2. Run `npm install --save dd-trace@latest`. This adds a dependency on the `dd-trace` module which includes the profiler.

3. You can auto-enable the profiler with environment variables:

    ```shell
    export DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=true
    export DD_ENV=prod
    export DD_SERVICE=my-web-app
    export DD_VERSION=1.0.3
    ```

    or in code:

    ```js
    const tracer = require('dd-trace').init({
      profiling: true,
      env: 'prod',
      service: 'my-web-app',
      version: '1.0.3'
    })
    ```

    **Note**: If you’re already using Datadog APM, you should already be calling `init` and don’t need to do so again. If you are not, ensure the tracer and the profiler are loaded together:

    ```node
    node -r dd-trace/init app.js
    ```

    or

    ```node
    const tracer = require('dd-trace/init')
    ```

4. A minute or two after starting your Node.js application, your profiles will show up on the [Datadog APM > Profiler page][4].

> ## Not sure what to do next?

Author: We should add another section here that says something along the lines of:

### Experiencing High Overhead?

Node.js 16+ is recommended. Some applications will see tail latency spikes every minute while starting the next profile on Node.js < 16.
